# VoiceControlledChessCheckers
To run this program, please run the main method in MainGUI (I have used VSCode and Eclipse but any other IDE with Java should work).
## Instructions
Once the main GUI launches, you can choose to enter player names or leave them blank and they will default to colors. You can choose between a few different options for the color of the board by pressing settings or let it default to light and dark brown. You can choose to either start a new game (play) or load a previously saved game (load). The left play and load buttons are for chess and the right are for checkers. To use voice control in game, you can either press 'T' to toggle the speech recognizer to stay on (status is in the bottom left of the board) or press space or click the speak button in the top left to give one command. Since it can mishear you, the speech recognizer uses the phonetic alphabet and is set to only recognize one coordinate at a time, even if the toggle is on. For example, if you want to move a piece from A2 to A4, please say "Alpha Two" (which will highlight and select the piece) and then say "Alpha Four" to move it. You can also left mouse click to select or right mouse click to deselect pieces.
## Additional Info
We used Java Swing to create the GUI, and Sphinx 4, an open source Java speech recognition library, for the speech recognition. Most of the work I've done as a personal project is in another repo https://github.com/DanielBKurt/VoiceControlChess but I copied the files into this repo and started working on adding checkers.
